---
layout: post
title:  iTea
date:   2021-03-01 00:00:00 +0000
image:  itea-main.png
tags:   Marketing
---
<style>
.center {
  display: flex;
  justify-content: center;
}
</style>

<h1 style="color:#3c0919;">Project Details</h1>

<a href="https://www.itea-usa.com/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">iTea USA Inc.</a> is a food and beverage company that specializes in bubble tea drinks. Since its inception in 2013, it has expanded to eighteen dine-in cafes across Northern California and in neighboring states like Arizona. Leveraging years of experience in the tea industry and maintaining connections with Taiwanese tea growers, iTea has quickly established itself as a relevant competitor in the Bay Area’s growing ‘boba’ market.

<b style="color:#3c0919;">TOPICS:</b> 4 P’s, 5 C’s, Situational Analysis       
<b style="color:#3c0919;">TEAM:</b> 3 Collaborators     
<b style="color:#3c0919;">TIME:</b> 10 Weeks  

<h1 style="color:#3c0919;">Overview</h1>

This quarter-long project was the foundation of the curriculum for my marketing class, MGT 140. Our team was tasked to develop a comprehensive GTM plan outlining the ways in which we could improve iTea’s annual revenue and customer visits YOY. The overall objective of the assignment was to work in a real-world, collaborative setting and take on the role of a consulting firm; we needed to apply the proper methodologies to analyze customers, markets, and competitors to effectively detect iTea’s business problems and deliver a sustainable solution.

***

<h1 style="color:#3c0919;">Audit</h1>

The first step of the project was to conduct an audit on iTea, paying close attention to its business model and the 4 P’s / 5 C’s framework. To reduce the scope of the project and due to COVID-19, our team was asked to solely focus on the local iTea cafe near the UC Davis campus.

After analyzing all relevant components of iTea’s business and the current environment of the market surrounding Davis, our team determined that iTea’s competitive advantage was its close proximity to campus. While this was certainly favorable for future marketing endeavors, we were more focused on the company’s pricing model. For a boba shop that offers drinks at an average price of $4.75 each, our team wondered if iTea’s customers (mostly students) were willing to sacrifice the convenience of location for cheaper alternatives.

<h1 style="color:#3c0919;">Consumer Dynamics</h1>

We conducted focus groups (N = 20, four groups of five) to gather qualitative feedback related to customer buying decisions and created a survey (N = 35) to gather quantitative data encompassing purchase attributes. To eliminate possible bias, only participants who have been to an iTea location within the past 6 months and have purchased at least one type of product were able to take part in the focus group or survey.

<h3 style="color:#3c0919;">Focus Group Findings</h3>

The group summary of the four separate discussions were as follows:

* iTea’s location is what drove most participants to try their products. A majority agreed that its distance to campus makes it a convenient study space and hang-out spot with friends (pre-pandemic).
* Customers appreciated iTea for its selection of drinks and food, but stand by the fact that it is the location that drives them there.
* A majority of participants felt that drink quality was average to above average. They felt that iTea shines in the food options that they offer, but falls short in price and in differentiating themselves from other boba cafes.

<h3 style="color:#3c0919;">Survey Findings</h3>

Of the 35 survey respondents, about 30% claimed that iTea’s prices were ‘higher than their liking,’ and in that same cluster, about 2/5 were inclined to buy from another competitor. More than half of these respondents also claimed that they had not seen any promotional materials or advertisements beyond the cafe’s physical location. 

Demographic information, along with purchase data, allowed us to separate customers into four distinct segments and identify iTea’s target persona. Recency, frequency, and monetary (RFM) scores were calculated and assigned to each individual to determine customer value. Even though our sample size was small, we found that 80% of individuals who took the survey identified as Asian American and lived less than two miles from the iTea Davis location. 

From these insights, our team was able to determine that iTea’s central marketing challenges revolved around customer consideration of their products and awareness of the overall brand. Some questions we asked ourselves included: 

* Are the prices of drinks too high, or is it not providing enough value to the customer?
* How can we drive more exposure to iTea and establish a social media following?

<h1 style="color:#3c0919;">Market Landscape</h1>

The next step in the project was to analyze iTea’s competition. There are a variety of bubble tea spots in Davis and a majority of them are also franchises. Thus, we could safely compare these places to iTea without needing to account for possible bias towards single, local-owned eateries. For the convenience of time and for the purposes of the project, the top two boba shops listed in survey responses were chosen as the primary competitors.

After a thorough look into T4 and ShareTea’s business, our team determined that iTea is only able to differentiate through its seasonal drinks and extensive meal offerings. It was also not until the time of this project that iTea established and or re-branded its own website. The company is lacking in all other categories with respect to their bigger rivals, which is further highlighted in the following SWOT analysis.    

<h1 style="color:#3c0919;">KPI Estimations</h1>

Backed by survey responses, RFM data, and Yelp / Google ‘peak’ times, we calculated iTea’s estimated annual revenue as a product of average amount spent per visit by category of visitors (outlined in the customer segmentation table above). Although we did not explicitly determine what constitutes a ‘visit,’ it can be generalized to any offline or online customer transaction.

During weekdays, we estimated traffic to average about 60 customers per hour over the span of their 11 AM - 8 PM business hours. On weekends, we estimated that iTea brings in a slightly larger crowd of 65 individuals per hour. Based on these numbers, we determined that the company receives about 170,000 customers per year, yielding annual revenues of about $1.4M*. To meet the 10% YOY goal of visits and revenue growth established at the beginning of the project, our GTM plan must successfully generate a minimum of 17,000 visits and $140,000 within the next fiscal year. 

*Disclaimer: The estimations were inflated for the purpose of the project. 

<h1 style="color:#3c0919;">GTM Plan</h1>

<br>

<div class="center">
  <iframe src="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1dgK9Z5rzMj1rQeA4HnLaTPaJ-cKhbW8m/preview" width="100%" height="480" allow="autoplay"></iframe>
</div>

<br>

<h1 style="color:#3c0919;">Reflection</h1>

The constructive feedback we received from our TA primarily revolved around the ‘increased portions’ strategy, and how it didn’t necessarily align with the financial sustainability constraint of the project. Although this is true for most food and beverage companies, it is worthy to note that the average franchise boba drink is already marked up by about 300% (~$0.75 cost per drink). Sacrificing minimal margins in exchange for a possible increase in customer satisfaction and traffic (especially in a college town) does not appear to be unreasonable for a trial period. However, in a market where trends are constantly changing and what’s ‘unique’ is typically the most relevant, I feel that our team should have definitely explored more creative, online-based marketing strategies if we were keen on prioritizing acquisition over retention.      

Overall, this was the most interesting and educational (non-technical) assignment that I’ve worked on thus far during my time in university. While I have a basic background in digital marketing, it was a fulfilling experience to work ‘directly’ on a real company with resourceful peers who approached each step of the assignment from different perspectives.


